# SP-IV Replication

**Created on**: December 23, 2024  
**Authors**: Maxime Coulet, Nina Stizi, Eliott Von-Pine  

---

## Project Overview

This project is part of the **Advanced Macroeconometrics** final assignment. We aim to replicate and extend recent methodologies in dynamic macroeconomic analysis.  

Specifically, the project has two core objectives:  

1. **Replication**:  
   - We replicate the estimation of the Phillips curve as detailed in the paper:  
     Plagborg-Møller, M., & Wolf, C. K. (2022). Dynamic Identification Using System Projections on Instrumental Variables 
     (Working Paper No. 2204). Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. https://doi.org/10.24149/wp2204

2. **Extension**:  
   - Using the methodology from the same paper, we estimate the **government spending multiplier**.  
   - Our estimation adapts and applies three distinct methodologies to identify the **government spending multiplier** adapted from the following references:  
     - Ramey, V. A. (2011). Identifying government spending shocks: It's all in the timing. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 126(1), 1–50. https://doi.org/10.1093/qje/qjq008  
     - Ramey, V. A., & Zubairy, S. (2018). Government spending multipliers in good times and in bad: Evidence from US historical data. Journal of Political Economy, 126(2), 850–901. https://doi.org/10.1086/696277 

---

## Repository Contents

- **`data/`**:  
  - Contains datasets used for replication and analysis.  
  - Subdirectories:  
    - `phillips_curve/`: Data for replicating the Phillips curve estimation.  
    - `government_spending_multiplier/`: Data for estimating government spending multipliers.  
- **`docs/`**: Contains articles used in the methodology
- **`results/`**: Output files generated by the scripts, including figures, tables, and summary statistics. 
- **`utils/`**: Contains utility methods for data preprocessing, transformations, and shared helper functions.  
- **`phillips_curve.py`**: Script for replicating the Phillips curve.  
- **`gov_spending_mult_BP_shock.py`**: Script for estimating government spending multipliers using the Blanchard-Perotti shock.
- **`gov_spending_mult_RS_date.py`**: Script for estimating government spending multipliers using the Ramey-Shapiro military shock.
- **`gov_spending_mult_News_data.py`**: Script for estimating government spending multipliers using the Defense news shock.  

---

## Requirements

This project requires the following software and libraries:  
- Python (>=3.10)  
- NumPy  
- pandas  
- statsmodels  
- matplotlib  

Install dependencies with:  
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
